hey it's me Destin welcome back to
smarter every day so before we start the
butterfly deep dive the one question I
get more than anything else here on
smarter every day is what's your
educational background so we're going to
tell you I got my bachelor's degree from
the University of Alabama and mechanical
engineering and I got my Master's
screeds University of Alabama in
Huntsville and aerospace engineering
specifically in rocket propulsion anyway
so now that that's out of the way the
cool thing about this video for me is
that both of my University alma mater
are working together to unravel the
mystery of butterfly scales I think
that's pretty awesome ready to go anyway
so what they're going to do is here at
the atom lab the autonomous tracking and
optical measurements lab there's a bunch
of cameras set up and we're going to
track butterflies we're going to try to
determine if they are more efficient
with or without their scales it's pretty
cool now if you excuse me I need to go
jealous myself
if you're new this martyr every day a
deep dive is a clinical playlist that
you can check out any point this video
and research one specific topic in Grady
for example in the past we are deep dive
with helicopters look at that
still powering this thing and it fell
out of the sky why is that
it's because micro air vehicles are
historically inefficient fliers which is
interesting because butterflies are
super duper efficient they think about
these things can migrate thousands and
thousands of miles dr. Amy Lange at the
University of Alabama has been
researching the aerodynamics of
butterfly fly in dr. Nathan sluggers at
the University of Alabama Huntsville has
a 3d facility for tracking micro air
vehicles so is there a way we can
combine the two we'll take the
aerodynamic research from dr. lang and
the ability to track a 3d vehicle by dr.
slager's and see if we can baseline the
efficiency for a butterfly and then make
modifications to the butterfly in hopes
of increasing the efficiency of a micro
air vehicle if we have a butterfly wing
we marked it with a retroreflector
marker on it we can reconstruct where it
is they have cameras all over the walls
over there and if they know exactly
where those markers are you can combine
all that data and figure out a 3d
position of the butterfly what does this
mean this means you can fly this
butterfly in 3d space wherever else to
go and then you can analyze the data
after the fact
now that's very important if you're
trying to figure out efficiencies of
flight think about this you could fly a
butterfly with scales on his wing and
without scales on his wing and you can
figure out if it's more efficient or
less efficient because he has scales
micro air vehicles the major problem is
battery people can build Robo flies I
can do Harvard but they're powered by
car batteries with tethers
I'm looking at ways with dr. Liang to
improve the efficiency so you getting or
is efficiency 10% that's the same thing
as improving your batteries 10%
gotcha start I'll you starting to get
all these efficiencies in every part of
the UAV and eventually you get the entry
will get there think back to our last
episode when we looked at the structure
of butterflies scales with a scanning
electron microscope any structural or
mechanical engineer can tell you that
these scales are designed to resist
bending in one particular direction so
does that mean that they're actually
designed to capture more air with each
wing beat
dr. Liang and dr. slager's are actually
testing this theory with real data
they put reflectors on the butterflies
and fly them in the atom lab and record
the data of the flight then they're able
to virtually play back the flights in
slow motion you can do really cool
things like measure the wing beats you
can measure the position the velocity
you can get the kinetic and the
potential energy at any one point along
the flight to get an average of how hard
that butterfly is having to work to move
across the room in the end they only got
two good data sets basically the same
butterfly that flew with and without
scales so what do you think the data
showed after they remove the scales from
the butterfly wings so they are flapping
frequency increased by about five to ten
percent to achieve the same increase in
energy but every energy we made a
combined you know speed and change in
height okay
so what does this mean for science so it
meant that they were say 10% less
efficient I had to try 10% harder by
flapping harder to get the same amount
of motion out I'm looking at ways with
dr. Liang to improve the efficiency so
I'm you getting Orion efficiency 10%
that's the same thing as improving your
bad news 10% okay so what's the
application that we're going to start
putting scales on micro air vehicles
exactly what it means it's because of
research that's going on right now at
UAH right yes
Thanks so if you want to check out the
deep dive and go back through all the
stuff we've learned on butterflies
together
I mean we've covered caterpillar
locomotion complicated cocoon designs
how they gather nutrients in order to
mate how they lay eggs we even covered
the incredible optomechanical design
associated with their wing scales and
there's pretty cool stuff there are
still several things that we don't know
about butterflies for example scientists
do not know how metamorphosis came to be
it's a pretty crazy thing if you think
about it I mean this creature that has
the ability to eat and sustain himself
destroys almost everything about his old
ways and is reborn to live life in a
totally new and exciting way but before
he enjoys this new more productive and
fruitful life he first has to die to
himself
allow himself to be remade it is one of
the thing that I think you deserve to
know the first sponsored video on
smarter every day was the butterfly
lifecycle video and your response to
that video was so big that audible
decided to sponsor smarter every day for
six months and that doesn't sound like a
big deal like in the grand scheme of
things but I want you to know that I
really appreciate that because that was
six months of uncertainty in my job I
was furloughed at one point the
government shut down another point but I
had stability for my family and I had
peace of mind because you guys were
downloading free audiobooks so it is
with great joy that I would recommend to
you audible.com slash smarter go get
your free audio book you can do whatever
you want
there's tons of titles if you don't like
it you can return it and get a different
one but I just want say thank you thank
you to you and thank you to audible.com
for sponsoring smarter every day it
means a lot anyway I'm Destin you can
check out the deep dive if you're
interested in that you can also get your
free audiobook anyway I'm Destin getting
smarter every day